notes api

https://www.taniarascia.com/how-to-connect-to-an-api-with-javascript/

api is between the application and the server 

communicate with third party software (difference between this and a database...
how is this different than a weblet...?)

JSON DATA in the HTML

GET

create= post

read = get (retrieve)

update = put/patch

REST= just kind of web standard...

div root id...? 

connect to an api confusing because you can connect with python php javascript etc.
sometimes connect curl and REST calls..

API endpoint...

JSON is used primarily for data...

endpoint= when it connects to the software program..

need to use objects to connect api using http request 

xml vs json?  both used to retrieve data from a web server 

xml has to be parsed... xml is more difficult in general 

onload function vs open()...

javascript fetch API? 

XMLHttpRequest() -- kind of like a method

request.open--- tells what website to go to...  

onload... tells what to do with the data when you open it

send = just launch everything

dont get why we need xmlhttprequest just to make the object... (like the package)


parse means CONVERT --- one kind of language to another basically

json has to be converted or parsed into javascript or else cant read it 

for vs foreach i dont get he difference 

data variable after we parse it it's going to put all the data into a variable from the API... 

404 not found 

200 is ok 

shift ctrl j is for console log in chrome 

you dont need to put anything into javascript really... 

you need to get it outside of the console... does it always work like that or is it just for show... 

api works in similar way to php inserting data from a database

basically json is like 

DOM is actually an API lets communicate with html... (but its an api doesnt use a server...??? i thought had to use a server...)

i should take notes just write it next to the code 



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VukxN00bK_c




















